# Software Requirements Specification
Revision: v1.1.0

### Table Of Contents
1. Introduction
   1. Purpose
   2. Conventions
   3. Intended Audience
   4. Overall Description
2. System Features
3. Nonfunctional Requirements
4. Appendix

## 1. Introduction
### 1.1 Purpose
This project intends to provide capability for interpretation of genotype calls from the Mouse 
Universal Genotyping array platforms by building a web application that utilizes a programming 
interface to be provided by the client.

### 1.2 Conventions
<!--Describe any standards or typographical conventions that were followed when writing this SRS, 
such as fonts or highlighting that have special significance. For example, state whether priorities
for higher-level requirements are assumed to be inherited by detailed requirements, or whether every
requirement statement is to have its own priority.-->
This document is written using the 
[Markdow language](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) and follows all its language and 
syntax conventions. 

Feature prioriteies exist in two tiers: 
- Tier-1:
  - To be delivered even at the expense of _any_ work being delivered on Tier-2
- Tier-2, 
  - To be prioritized only if Tier-1 can be completed
  - Emphasis on comprehensive delivery of documentation and design over complete
  delivery of a single component.

We use the following terms to mean:
- WebApp - An application that runs through a web browser
- Component Module - An piece of an application that can be used within many different applications
- Visualization - An interactive, image based representation of scientific information

### 1.3 Intended Audience
<!--Describe the different types of reader that the document is intended for, such as developers, 
project managers, marketing staff, users, testers, and documentation writers. Describe what the rest
of this SRS contains and how it is organized. Suggest a sequence for reading the document, beginning
with the overview sections and proceeding through the sections that are most pertinent to each 
reader type.-->

This document is intended for all contributors to the HaploQA project. This includes clients and 
stakeholders, developers, testers, and technical writers. The document outlines the scope of the 
current work on the project as to be completed by the Roux CS5500 "Roux HaploQA" team for the
The Jackson Laboratory. 

## 2. Overall Description
> HaploQA is a software platform that provides interpretation of genotype calls from the Mouse 
> Universal Genotyping array platforms (including Mega-/Giga- MUGA) that are available from Neogen 
> Genomics (Morgan et al., 2015). The software allows for direct upload of sample and genotype data,
> sample annotation, and organization by users. The software interprets genotype calls and uses 
> established Hidden Markov Models that were generated by Dr. Gary Churchill’s laboratory to 
> generate haplotypes with negative log likelihood scoring. There are additional options for 
> interfacing with the data through a web-based graphics, links out to widely used genome browsers, 
> data/image/report downloads, and options for making the data public. If you want to read more 
> about MUGA platforms the following is a great resource:
>> Morgan AP et al.
>> The Mouse Universal Genotyping Array: From Substrains to Subspecies.
>> G3 (Bethesda). 2015 Dec 18;6(2):263-79. doi: 10.1534/g3.115.022087.
>> PMID: 26684931; PMCID: PMC4751547

### Product Description
We have been asked to design a web based application that utilizes a modular visualization design, 
to build these modular visualizations by migrating them from legacy HaploQA, and to start migrating 
the legacy frontend application pages.

### Product features
#### Web Application
The web application allows users to browse samples, view their metadata and visualizations, and to 
create an account and log in.

#### Visualization Modules
The visualizations provide an interactive way to view various data present about the sample on the
sample detail page. Modularizing these visualizations will allow for their reuse in additional
scientific applications.

### Client and Stakeholders

#### Clients
Dave Walton - The Jackson Laboratory<br>
Senior Principal Scientific Software Engineer<br>
Email: dave.walton@jax.org

Anna Lamoureux - The Jackson Laboratory<br>
Scientific Software Engineer<br>
Email: dave.walton@jax.org

#### Stakeholders
Laura Reinholdt - The Jackson Laboratory<br>
Associate Professor<br>
[Web Bio](https://www.jax.org/research-and-faculty/faculty/laura-reinholdt)

### System users
HaploQA is used by a wide variety of scientific and research focused users. It is assumed that the
users of HaploQA have a foundational technical understanding of the concepts presented.

### Operating environment
All contributions to HaploQA from this team are to be focused on the web application environment. 
The primary web browsers that are to be supported are to be in line with those supported by the
Angular web framework. These are, in order:
- Chrome: latest
- Firefox: latest and extended support release (ESR)
- Safari: 2 most recent major versions
- Edge: 2 most recent major versions

See the [Angular Documentation](https://angular.io/guide/browser-support#browser-support).

### Constraints
- The application needs to be developed in the Angular application framework
- The application needs to utilize a modular framework for visualizations
- The application needs to adhere to an API contract provided by the client

### User documentation requirements
- Documentation needs to be provided for both future software developers
  - This should include both code comments and descriptions in a relevant 
  README.md document.
- Documentation should be provided for end-users when necessary
  - Application end-users are assumed to understand the science, which does not
  need to be documented.

### Assumptions and dependencies
- The new programming interface to be used by this web application will be 
created by the clint.
- The system end users will have sufficient scientific understanding of the application 
functionality

## 4. System Features 
### 4.1 Use Case Name: Allow Developers to embed the Genome Karyotype Plots as a module
#### 4.1.1 Description and Priority
The HaploQA legacy application has a pair of Genome Kayotype Plots whose use extends beyond the 
HaploQA application. In order to reuse the plots the visulization need to be encapsulated behind an 
interface that will be designed to facilitate reuse across applications. The client has both an 
impending need for this functionality, as well as priority to adopt modulized component based 
software. 

This is the absolute highest priority feature, its completion will be prioritized even if it's at 
the expense of other features.

#### 4.1.2 Trigger
A developer identifies a need to embed the Genome Karyotype Plot in their Angular web application.

#### 4.1.3 Preconditions
- The developer has access to an API that provides data for the Genome Karyotype Plot, or some other
method of obtaining data in the correct format for the Genome Karyotype Plot.
- The developer is working in the Angular web framework.

#### 4.1.4 Regular Path
1. The developer implements a method of requesting plot data from the API
2. The developer adds the Genome Karyotype Plot to the page they want it displayed on 
3. The developer feeds the response from the API to the Genome Karyotype Plot module.
   1. The developer should not need to modify the response from the API, given that the API is 
   indended to be used for this purpose.
4. The developer implements any additional mechanism to update/change the plot data selections

#### 4.1.4.1 Alternate Path
1. The developer implements a method of generating data for the Genome Karyotype Plot
2. The developer adds the Genome Karyotype Plot to the page they want it displayed on 
3. The developer feeds the data into the Genome Karyotype Plot module
4. The developer implements any additional mechanism to update/change the plot data selections

#### 4.1.5 Postcondition
The Genome Karyotype Plot is embedded and usable within the developer's Angular application

#### 4.1.6 Exception Paths
- Data to the plot might be provided in the wrong format.
- Data provided to the plot might be outside the bounds of what the visualization can plot.
  - This could be either for technical limitations or visual/space limitations.

#### 4.1.7 Related Nonfunctional Requirements
- The module's usage needs to be well documented and made available for end-user developers.
- The visualizations will be resonponsive to user interaction.
- The user will interact with the visualization in the same way they did with the previous version.
- The visualizations will report errors to the developer to use as they need.

### 4.2 Use Case Name: View a list of all samples
#### 4.2.1 Description and Priority
This listing of all viewable samples allows users to start exploring without having an idea of what 
to search for. The client would like us to reproduce ther version of the page in HaploQA legacy, and
expand the usability of this listing by including additional information yet to be specified by the
client.

This feature is a second tier priority feature, and will have an emphasis on delivering designs
and components if a full delivery is not possible.

#### 4.2.2 Trigger
The user navigates to the main page of the application.

#### 4.2.3 Precondition
- The user has at least a minimal understanding of the underlying scientific context of the 
application.

#### 4.2.4 Regular Path
- The user navigates to the main application page
- The user scrolls to the list of all samples
- The user can see details about each sample
- The user selects a sample from the list to view details about

#### 4.2.5 Postcondition
- The user has either selected a sample and is on the sample detail page or the user has already 
found the inforamtion they need.

#### 4.2.6 Exception Paths
- The user decides to use another features of the application
- The user decides to stop using the application

#### 4.2.7 Related Nonfunctional Requirements
- The listing page has to be usable on a desktop browser
- 

### 4.3 Use Case Name: Search for a sample
#### 4.3.1 Description and Priority
When a user has an idea of what samples they want to inspect, the sample search functionality allows
them to search samples by text.

#### 4.3.2 Trigger
The user selects the search bar.

#### 4.3.3 Precondition
The user has an idea of what to terms to search with.

#### 4.3.4 Regular Path
- The user types their search terms
- The user presses the `ENTER` key or presses the seach button
- The application displays the search result for the user

#### 4.3.5 Postcondition
- The user has either selected a sample and is on the sample detail page or the user has already 
found the inforamtion they need.

#### 4.3.6 Exception Paths
- The user decides to use another features of the application
- The user decides to stop using the application

#### 4.3.7 Related Nonfunctional Requirements

### 4.4 Use Case Name: View details about a sample
#### 4.4.1 Description and Priority
The sample detail page is where all of the sample details are presented to the user. The page 
provides a comprehensive view of the details about a sample, including the two Genome Karyotype 
Plots (4.1) generated from the curated details about provided by the backend API.

#### 4.4.2 Trigger
- The user navigates to a sample detail page by:
  - Selecting a sample from all viewable samples list (4.2) 
  - Selecting a sample from the sample search results (4.3)

#### 4.4.3 Precondition
The user has a foundational understanding of the scientific information presented about the sample.

#### 4.4.4 Regular Path
- The user inspects the complete details about the listed on the page
- The user inspects the Genome Karyotype Plot and selects a range to view in detail
- The user inspects the Genome Interval Plot to view the selected region in detail

#### 4.4.5 Postcondition
The user has found the information they were interested in about the sample.

#### 4.4.6 Exception Paths
- The user decides to look for another sample 
- The user decides to stop using the application

#### 4.4.7 Related Nonfunctional Requirements
- The sample details should be organized in a table format
- The Genome Karyotype Plots should be displayed with a minimum of 900px of width

## 5. Additional Nonfunctional Requirements
#### 5.1: Critical components must have automated testing written to validate functionality
#### 5.2: Automated tests must be run prior to merging code in order to assure stability
#### 5.3: All component and module creation should be intended solely for use with the Angular web framework.
#### 5.4: When possible, all code contributions should be created as component modules for easy reuse across this and other applications at The Jackson Laboratory

## Appendix
